add agents page (#2309)
namehash/ensnode: docs/ensnode.io/src/content/docs/docs/integrate/omnigraph/complementary/erc8004.mdx

---

> title: ERC-8004 (AI Agent Discovery)

Reviewer: I assume we should rename this page from `erc8004.mdx` to `erc-8004.mdx` (add hyphen)

> title: ERC-8004 (AI Agent Discovery)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: ERC-8004 (AI Agent Identity, Discovery, and Reputation)
```

> description: Preview of ERC-8004 AI agent discovery in the ENS Omnigraph API — find agents associated with an ENS name, look up the names behind an agent, and read agent service profiles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: ERC-8004 AI agent identity, discovery, and reputation in the ENS Omnigraph API — find agents associated with an ENS name, look up the names behind an agent, and read agent service profiles.
```

---

import { Aside, LinkCard } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

<Aside type="caution" title="Preview — coming soon">

>   ERC-8004 support in the ENS Omnigraph API is still being built. The shapes on this page are a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ERC-8004 support in the ENS Omnigraph API is under development. The details on this page are a
```

>   preview and may change before release. Expected to be available **before July 2026**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  preview and may change before release. Expected to be available **July 2026**.
```

</Aside>

> [ERC-8004](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-8004) is a new standard that gives an onchain AI agent a portable identity (an NFT in an Identity Registry) plus an **agent card** describing what it does and how to reach it. On the ENS side, [ENSIP-25](https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/25) and [ENSIP-26](https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/26) are ENS standards that let an **ENS name** publish agent discovery records and **attest** which ERC-8004 agent(s) it controls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ERC-8004](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-8004) is a new standard that gives an onchain AI agent a portable identity (an NFT in an Identity Registry) plus an **agent card** describing what the agent does and how to reach it. On the ENS side, [ENSIP-25](https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/25) and [ENSIP-26](https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/26) are ENS standards that let an **ENS name** publish agent discovery records and **attest** which ERC-8004 agent(s) it controls.
```

> The ENS Omnigraph API will bring both sides together: start from an **ENS name** or from an **ERC-8004 agent**, and get the agent card, reputation, and the attested name-to-agent relationship in one query, with no contract calls or IPFS fetching on your side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ENS Omnigraph API makes it easy to bring both sides together: start from an **ENS name** or from an **ERC-8004 agent**, and get the agent card, reputation, and the attested name-to-agent relationship in one query, with no need for RPC calls to contracts or IPFS fetching on your side.
```

> ## Why this is complementary to ENS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## A complementary protocol for ENS
```

> <Aside type="note" title="A fast-follower opportunity for ENS">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Aside type="note" title="Strengthen ENS's role in AI agent identity, discovery, and coordination">
```

AI agent discovery is a new area where ENS names can act as the human-readable, portable
identity layer for autonomous agents. **ERC-8004 is one possible complementary standard** for this — it
is still early and conceptual.

> ENS is already exploring this space: **ENSIP-25 and ENSIP-26** define how ENS names relate to onchain
> agent identities and discovery records. ENS Omnigraph API lets ENS be a **fast follower** — if ERC-8004 or related protocols become popular,
> support can be added as a plugin and accessed through the same unified API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ENS is already exploring this space: **ENSIP-25 and ENSIP-26** define how ENS names relate to onchain agent identities and discovery records.

The ENS Omnigraph enables the convenient harmonization of ENS with protocols that are complimentary to ENS, such as ERC-8004. Optional ENSNode plugins enable this harmonization to be achieved at an API-layer, through the ENS Omnigraph API, even if the complementary protocol may not directly speak to ENS onchain.

Key benefits of this approach for ENS include:

- Give ENS "fast-follower speed-to-market" that positions ENS to gain network effects and market distribution power from complementary protocols when they emerge.
- Provide ENS with non-committal adaptability. No one knows which protocol(s) will ultimately win the market for AI agent identity, discovery, and coordination. Maybe it will be ERC-8004. Maybe it will be something else. The harmonization offered by the ENS Omnigraph API is achieved through optional ENSNode plugins. If ERC-8004 happens to lose popularity to some other emerging standard, the optional plugin can simply be disabled. No need to permanently commit ENS to one specific implementation of a complementary protocol such as ERC-8004. Each operator of an ENSNode instance can decide for themselves which optional ENSNode plugins they wish to activate.
```

</Aside>

## Plugin

> ERC-8004 data is **not** part of core ENS. The fields on this page come from `erc8004` [ENSNode plugin](/docs/integrate/integration-options/ensnode-plugins):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Technically, ERC-8004 is distinct from the ENS protocol. The fields on this page come from the optional `erc8004` [ENSNode plugin](/docs/integrate/integration-options/ensnode-plugins):
```

- Each ENSNode operator chooses which plugins to activate on their instance.

> - The ERC-8004 fields described here resolve to non-null values when ENSNode has `erc8004` plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The ERC-8004 fields described here always resolve to `null` values on any ENSNode instance that has not activated the optional `erc8004` plugin.
```

<LinkCard
  title="ENSNode Plugins"
  description="How operators customize which onchain data an ENSNode instance indexes and exposes."
  href="/docs/integrate/integration-options/ensnode-plugins"
/>

## Who this feature is for

> - **AI agent developers** — you publish an **agent** under ERC-8004 and want a human-readable ENS **name** to be shown in ENS related services.
> - **AI Apps and services** — you want to discover **agents** and show trustworthy identity, reputation, endpoints and connection to ENS.
> - **Apps with ENS integration** - you want to include information about ENSIP-25 **agent** into profile card of a **name** or show all **agents** of an **address**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Apps that want to extend their display of onchain AI agent related identities with complementary data from ENS.
- Apps that want to extend their display of ENS identities to include AI agent related attributes of that identity where relevant.
```

> ## Find ERC-8004 agents associated with an ENS name

Reviewer: It seems we should create a H2 (Heading 2) for "Example Queries" and then change the heading for all the example queries from H2 to H3.

> Most apps already have an ENS name. The agent data lives under `domain.resolve.profile.erc8004agents` — this is **interpreted ENS Resolution** (see [ENS Resolution](/docs/integrate/omnigraph/ens-resolution)): the ENS Omnigraph API reads the underlying ENSIP-25/26 records and returns clean, structured fields instead of raw text records.

Reviewer: "Most apps already have an ENS name."

I don't understand the idea we are trying to communicate here? This doesn't sound right.

> Most apps already have an ENS name. The agent data lives under `domain.resolve.profile.erc8004agents` — this is **interpreted ENS Resolution** (see [ENS Resolution](/docs/integrate/omnigraph/ens-resolution)): the ENS Omnigraph API reads the underlying ENSIP-25/26 records and returns clean, structured fields instead of raw text records.

Reviewer: Is there a more specific anchor link we could use for deeper-linking to background information about "interpreted" resolution? Just linking to the ENS resolution page overall isn't so good because there's so much info there.

> Most apps already have an ENS name. The agent data lives under `domain.resolve.profile.erc8004agents` — this is **interpreted ENS Resolution** (see [ENS Resolution](/docs/integrate/omnigraph/ens-resolution)): the ENS Omnigraph API reads the underlying ENSIP-25/26 records and returns clean, structured fields instead of raw text records.

Reviewer: We should cite here how if you want to query the raw records associated with ENSIP-25/26 that the ENS Omnigraph API supports that too through `domain.resolve.records`.

Each entry in `attestations` is one ENSIP-25 attestation, with its `verification` status and the indexed ERC-8004 agent nested inline. By default `attestations` returns only `VERIFIED` attestations; pass `where` to include the partial ones.

```graphql ins={8-29}

> query AgentsForName {

Reviewer: It seems to me it would be more interesting to change this into `AgentsForAddress` and change the Omnigraph query from being about a domain by name, to being an account by address.

Then, the data requested in the query could include the ENS primary name of that address, the profile of that primary name, and info about any ERC-8004 agents that might be associated with the address.

  domain(by: { name: "myagent.eth" }) {

>     canonical {

Reviewer: It doesn't seem so important to include this `canonical { ...` idea in this example query. It's best to minimize noise and distraction that isn't totally essential to communicating the core idea of an example.

      name { beautified }
    }
    resolve {

>       profile {

Reviewer: We're missing a key part of the story here. Please see my feedback above on the "Who this feature is for" section.

We aren't building this feature for people who only want to query ERC-8004. There's no point for us to do that. Other APIs for that already exist.

What makes our case special and gives it value is because it **COMBINES** ENS with ERC-8004.

The example queries here are all ERC-8004 only. This needs to change. Each example query needs to be updated so that it combines ENS with ERC-8004 in a way that feels practical and valuable and demonstrates a real use case.

>         erc8004agents {

Reviewer: Seems we should rename this? Here's a few possible ideas:

```suggestion
        erc8004 {
```

```suggestion
        erc-8004 {
```

My overall preference would be for the value we choose here to be exactly the same as the ENSNode plugin name.

Also, it would be helpful if you added some comments in the code here. For example I understand this field is actually exposing an interpreted resolution of ENSIP-25 / 26 values? It would be helpful to make it more clear exactly which fields would be exposed here as interpreted resolution outputs from these ENSIPs on this field.

>           context

Reviewer: This context field seems curious to me. What's the idea here?

          attestations(where: { verification: [VERIFIED, ONLY_ENS, ONLY_AGENT] }) {
            verification # ONLY_ENS | ONLY_AGENT | VERIFIED
            identityRegistry { chainId address }
            agentId

>             erc8004agent {

Reviewer: Is there a special reason why this is called `8004agent`? I see it is already nested under `erc8004` and therefore it seems it should be fine to just call this `agent`?

              agentId

>               chain { name }

Reviewer: Could this also include a `chainId`?

>               card {

Reviewer: Where's fields for things like the services exposed by the agent, such as MCP or other stuff?

- **Everything in one round trip** — the agent card and reputation come back nested under each attestation; no second request.

## Look up the ENS names associated with an ERC-8004 agent

When you already have an agent (from a registry, a wallet, or search), query it directly.
The reverse view `domains.attestations` returns the ENS names that attest to this agent.

```graphql
query AgentById {
  erc8004agent(by: {
      chainName: ETHEREUM,
      agentId: "34820"
  }) {
    agentId
    owner { address }
    card {
      name
      description
      supportedTrust
    }
    reputation {
      feedbackCount
      averageScore
    }
    domains {
      attestations(where: { verification: [VERIFIED, ONLY_ENS, ONLY_AGENT] }) {
        verification
        context
        name { beautified }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Search for ERC-8004 agents by indexed metadata

Find agents by chain, card name, or ENS name.

```graphql
query FindErc8004Agents {
  erc8004agents(
    first: 20
    where: {
      chainName: { eq: ETHEREUM }
      cardName: { contains: "trading" }

>       ensName: { contains: "eth" }

Reviewer: Hmm. What's the big idea here? Suggest to refine it to be more clear

    }
  ) {
    totalCount
    edges {
      node {
        agentId
        card { name description }
        domains {
          attestations { verification name { beautified } }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Read an ERC-8004 agent service profile

Read the endpoint you want to talk to from the agent card. `attestations` returns only `VERIFIED` attestations by default, so no `where` filter is needed here. `protocol` is an `AgentServiceProtocol` enum (`MCP`, `A2A`, `X402`, `WEB`, ...), and you can pass `protocols` to fetch only the services you care about.

```graphql
query AgentServices {
  domain(by: { name: "myagent.eth" }) {
    resolve {
      profile {
        erc8004agents {
          attestations {

>             verification

Reviewer: Seems no value to include this field in the response then?
